docs/content/examples/index.md, before:

# Example Collection

Here are some examples on how you can use `bw_timex`.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 4

:::{grid-item-card} 🚗⚡ Life Cycle of an Electric Car
:link: ./example_electric_vehicle_premise.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Example of a time-explicit LCA of the entire life cycle of an electric car.
```{image} ./data/ev_lifecycle_dark.svg
:class: only-dark
```
```{image} ./data/ev_lifecycle_light.svg
:class: only-light
```
+++
by @TimoDiepers
:::

:::{grid-item-card} 🌿📈 Dynamic Characterization
:link: ./example_simple_dynamic_characterization.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Example of some of the dynamic characterization capabilities that come with a TimexLCA.
```{image} ./data/dynamic_characterization.svg
```
+++
by @muelleram
:::

:::{grid-item-card} ... more is coming soon 🤗
:link: ./index.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
We'll be adding more and more examples here, stay tuned!
+++
by @TimexDevs
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Or do you have anything to add? 🧐
:link: ./index.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Please contact us if you want to share your super cool example!
+++
by @You?
:::


```{toctree}
---
hidden:
maxdepth: 1
---
self
example_electric_vehicle_premise
example_simple_dynamic_characterization
```

Commit message:

add paper notebook to docs

docs/content/examples/index.md, after:

# Example Collection

Here are some examples on how you can use `bw_timex`.

::::{grid} 1 2 2 2
:gutter: 4

:::{grid-item-card} 🚗⚡ Life Cycle of an Electric Car
:link: ./example_electric_vehicle_premise.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Example of a time-explicit LCA of the entire life cycle of an electric car.
```{image} ./data/ev_lifecycle_dark.svg
:class: only-dark
```
```{image} ./data/ev_lifecycle_light.svg
:class: only-light
```
+++
by @TimoDiepers
:::

:::{grid-item-card} 🌿📈 Dynamic Characterization
:link: ./example_simple_dynamic_characterization.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Example of some of the dynamic characterization capabilities that come with a TimexLCA.
```{image} ./data/dynamic_characterization.svg
```
+++
by @muelleram
:::

:::{grid-item-card} 📄🚗 EV Case Study from our paper
:link: ./paper_case_study.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
This is the notebook used to calculate the time-explicit LCAs and create the Figures for our paper
on time-explicit LCA.
```{image} ./data/paper_radiative_forcing.svg
```
+++
by @TimoDiepers
:::

:::{grid-item-card} Or do you have anything to add? 🧐
:link: ./index.html
:link-type: url
:class-body: sphinx-design-class-body-examples
:text-align: left
:style: margin-bottom: 20px;
Please contact us if you want to share your super cool example!
+++
by @You?
:::


```{toctree}
---
hidden:
maxdepth: 1
---
self
example_electric_vehicle_premise
example_simple_dynamic_characterization
```
